README.md, before:

# 🏠 Boston House Price Prediction - Machine Learning Project
## Overview:
This project aims to predict house prices in Boston using various regression techniques. 
The dataset used is from the **Boston Housing Dataset**, containing features like number of rooms, location, and crime rate.
## 📊 The Dataset:
In this project we will use house a table dataset from *kaggle*, you can find out the details here : [The Dataset Link](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/fedesoriano/the-boston-houseprice-data)
##### 🔹 Input features in order:
1) **`CRIM`**: per capita crime rate by town
2) **`ZN`**: proportion of residential land zoned for lots over 25,000 sq.ft.
3) **`INDUS`**: proportion of non-retail business acres per town
4) **`CHAS`**: Charles River dummy variable (1 if tract bounds river; 0 otherwise)
5) **`NOX`**: nitric oxides concentration (parts per 10 million) [parts/10M]
6) **`RM`**: average number of rooms per dwelling
7) **`AGE`**: proportion of owner-occupied units built prior to 1940
8) **`DIS`**: weighted distances to five Boston employment centres
9) **`RAD`**: index of accessibility to radial highways
10) **`TAX`**: full-value property-tax rate per $10,000 [$/10k]
11) **`PTRATIO`**: pupil-teacher ratio by town
12) **`B`**: The result of the equation B=1000(Bk - 0.63)^2 where Bk is the proportion of blacks by town
15) **`LSTAT`**: % lower status of the population
##### 🔹 Output variable:
1) **`MEDV`**: Median value of owner-occupied homes in $1000's [k$]
## ⚙️ How To Run:
### 1. Clone the repository:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/Saadlkh/BostonHouse-ML.git
```
### 2. install the required libraries:
If you clone the project, you find this file: (**requirements.txt**)
and you can install all the libraries you need like this:
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```
But if you don't download the project, you can install the library like this:
```bash
pip install scikit-learn pandas matplotlib
```
(the pickle library is defaul install in python, if you want you can add it in the pip install list.)
[**Scikit-learn**](https://Scikit-learn.org/stable/)
[**Matplotlib**](https://matplotlib.org/stable/)
[**Pandas**](https://pandas.pydata.org/)
### 3. Run the Jupyter Notebook:
Go to the code editor and run the code,s ince we are using a notebook, it is better to open the code in an editor that supports this type of file, such as [**Jupyter**](https://jupyter.org/), which is specialized in this.
## 📈 Results & Performance:
After applying the models to our data, these were the results:
### 1. R² score result
<img src="MLProject/R² result.png" width="500" align="right" style="margin: 10px">

1. **`RandomForestRegression`**: 0.8267259143597692
2. **`LinearRegression`**: 0.682204188548306
3. **`Lasso`**: 0.678302118086267
4. **`Ridge`**: 0.6720123566569238

The higher the R² score, the better. Therefore, the model is the best in terms of R² score, range: 0 to 1 (1 = perfect fit, 0 = no explanation).

We use R² to understand how well the model captures the variation in the data.

**It doesn’t tell you the actual size of errors.**

So we cannot rely on it alone and we must follow more than one method to calculate accuracy.

-------------------
<img src="MLProject/MAE result.png" width="500" align="right" style="margin: 10px">

1. **`RandomForestRegression`**: 2.2050901960784315
2. **`LinearRegression`**: 3.686644639104774
3. **`Lasso`**: 3.6846024102558808
4. **`Ridge`**: 3.73248469819937

We use the MAE to evaluate the accuracy of predictions in the same units as the target variable.

**More sensitive to large errors (outliers).**

So we cannot rely on it alone and we must follow more than one method to calculate accuracy.

-------------------
<img src="MLProject/RMSE result.png" width="500" align="right" style="margin: 10px">

1. **`RandomForestRegression`**: 12.412397025098072
2. **`LinearRegression`**: 22.765134036498836
3. **`Lasso`**: 23.044656779993783
4. **`Ridge`**: 23.495220496810933

We use the RMSE to evaluate the accuracy of predictions in the same units as the target variable.

**More sensitive to large errors (outliers).**

So we cannot rely on it alone and we must follow more than one method to calculate accuracy.

## 📜 License:
This project is open-source and licensed under the MIT License. Feel free to use and modify it!



1. **`RandomForestRegression`**: **R²** is 0.8267259143597692, **RMSE** is 12.412397025098072, **MAE** is 2.2050901960784315, is the best model.
2. **`LinearRegression`**: **R²** is 0.682204188548306, **RMSE** is 22.765134036498836, **MAE** is 3.686644639104774.
3. **`Lasso`**: **R²** is 0.678302118086267, **RMSE** is 23.044656779993783, **MAE** is 3.6846024102558808.
4. **`Ridge`**: **R²** is 0.6720123566569238, **RMSE** is 23.495220496810933, **MAE** is 3.73248469819937.

Commit message:

result README.md update
add all the result: MSE, RMSE, R² in  the README.md file

README.md, after:

# 🏠 Boston House Price Prediction - Machine Learning Project
## Overview:
This project aims to predict house prices in Boston using various regression techniques. 
The dataset used is from the **Boston Housing Dataset**, containing features like number of rooms, location, and crime rate.
## 📊 The Dataset:
In this project we will use house a table dataset from *kaggle*, you can find out the details here : [The Dataset Link](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/fedesoriano/the-boston-houseprice-data)
##### 🔹 Input features in order:
1) **`CRIM`**: per capita crime rate by town
2) **`ZN`**: proportion of residential land zoned for lots over 25,000 sq.ft.
3) **`INDUS`**: proportion of non-retail business acres per town
4) **`CHAS`**: Charles River dummy variable (1 if tract bounds river; 0 otherwise)
5) **`NOX`**: nitric oxides concentration (parts per 10 million) [parts/10M]
6) **`RM`**: average number of rooms per dwelling
7) **`AGE`**: proportion of owner-occupied units built prior to 1940
8) **`DIS`**: weighted distances to five Boston employment centres
9) **`RAD`**: index of accessibility to radial highways
10) **`TAX`**: full-value property-tax rate per $10,000 [$/10k]
11) **`PTRATIO`**: pupil-teacher ratio by town
12) **`B`**: The result of the equation B=1000(Bk - 0.63)^2 where Bk is the proportion of blacks by town
15) **`LSTAT`**: % lower status of the population
##### 🔹 Output variable:
1) **`MEDV`**: Median value of owner-occupied homes in $1000's [k$]
## ⚙️ How To Run:
### 1. Clone the repository:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/Saadlkh/BostonHouse-ML.git
```
### 2. install the required libraries:
If you clone the project, you find this file: (**requirements.txt**)
and you can install all the libraries you need like this:
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```
But if you don't download the project, you can install the library like this:
```bash
pip install scikit-learn pandas matplotlib
```
(the pickle library is defaul install in python, if you want you can add it in the pip install list.)
[**Scikit-learn**](https://Scikit-learn.org/stable/)
[**Matplotlib**](https://matplotlib.org/stable/)
[**Pandas**](https://pandas.pydata.org/)
### 3. Run the Jupyter Notebook:
Go to the code editor and run the code,s ince we are using a notebook, it is better to open the code in an editor that supports this type of file, such as [**Jupyter**](https://jupyter.org/), which is specialized in this.
## 📈 Results & Performance:
After applying the models to our data, these were the results:
### 1. R² score results
<img src="MLProject/R² result.png" width="500" align="right" style="margin: 10px">

1. **`RandomForestRegression`**: 0.8267259143597692
2. **`LinearRegression`**: 0.682204188548306
3. **`Lasso`**: 0.678302118086267
4. **`Ridge`**: 0.6720123566569238

The smaller the MSE number, the better model, with range: 0 to 1 (1 = perfect fit, 0 = no explanation), which means that the **randomforestregressor** model is the best

We use R² to understand how well the model captures the variation in the data.

**It doesn’t tell you the actual size of errors.**

So we cannot rely on it alone and we must follow more than one method to calculate accuracy.

--------------------
### 2. MAE results
<img src="MLProject/MAE result.png" width="500" align="right" style="margin: 10px">

1. **`RandomForestRegression`**: 2.2050901960784315
2. **`LinearRegression`**: 3.686644639104774
3. **`Lasso`**: 3.6846024102558808
4. **`Ridge`**: 3.73248469819937

The smaller the MSE number, the better the model, with range: 0 to infinity (lower is better), which means that the **randomforestregressor** model is the best

We use the MAE to evaluate the accuracy of predictions in the same units as the target variable.

**More sensitive to large errors (outliers).**

So we cannot rely on it alone and we must follow more than one method to calculate accuracy.

--------------------
### 3. RMSE results
<img src="MLProject/RMSE result.png" width="500" align="right" style="margin: 10px">

1. **`RandomForestRegression`**: 12.412397025098072
2. **`LinearRegression`**: 22.765134036498836
3. **`Lasso`**: 23.044656779993783
4. **`Ridge`**: 23.495220496810933

The smaller the MSE number, the better the model, with range: 0 to infinity (lower is better), which means that the **randomforestregressor** model is the best

We use the RMSE to evaluate the accuracy of predictions in the same units as the target variable.

**More sensitive to large errors (outliers).**

So we cannot rely on it alone and we must follow more than one method to calculate accuracy.

## 📜 License:
This project is open-source and licensed under the MIT License. Feel free to use and modify it!
